# Analysis-of-Berkeley-Voluntary-Registry-Offsets-Database
Ongoing project initially using simple dataframe processing, linear regression, and logistic regression techniques to analyze a public database of registered carbon offset projects.
# Let’s get started!
This analysis has three parts. First, a simple ratio finding between the sum of credits in each registry in the database and the sum of those credits sourced from projects that I classify as Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR) projects. Second, using a logistic regression to find a trend in likelihood of individual carbon credits to be sourced from a project eligible for use in California’s Air Resources Board (ARB) Cap and Trade program. Finally, using a multivariate linear regression to find trends in the “retirement delay” of individual carbon credits- that is, the years elapsed between a credit’s issuance and its retirement, usually correlated with its price discount.
# 1-7
The entire analysis uses pandas, numpy, datetime, matplotlib, as well as several imports from sklearn. I start by finding the percent of credits in each registry that I consider to be “Effective CDR.” The majority of credits issued today come from climate mitigation projects, which prevent emissions from initially entering the atmosphere. These projects include switching to renewable energy sources, maintaining forests, electrifying transport, and capturing gas from landfills. Only a minority of credits are considered to come from Carbon Dioxide Reduction (CDR) projects, which remove carbon from the atmosphere. Common forms of CDR are reforestation and wetland restoration, which sequester atmospheric carbon in plant biomass. I exclude from the “Effective CDR” classification direct carbon capture methods that use captured gas in oil drilling operations, which facilitates and incentivizes future emissions.
I find the ratios in a fairly straightforward way, simply summing the credits in each entire registry and the credits in subsets containing only CDR projects. In most registries, CDR projects make up a tiny minority of the carbon credits produced, if they exist at all. In the case of ARB projects in the American Carbon Registry (ACR), there are no CDR projects.
# 8-12
The next segment of the analysis uses logistic regression. We begin by using datetime to turn the ACR dataframe into time series data, with a column turning each date into a continuous numeric variable (ordinal), and creating a dummy variable for each project’s ARB eligibility. Already it appears that ARB eligible projects make up somewhat of a minority of projects in the ACR from 2014 onwards.
I use a standard scaler on the date ordinals column and use it as the independent variable in my logistic regression with the ARB dummy as the dependent for a simple time-series logistic regression. The result is an accuracy score of 0.54(meaning the logistic classifier is accurate 54% of the time,) and an insignificant negative coefficient (the coefficient is meant to be used with the scaled ordinal, and so is just meant to show the direction of the trend and its strength.) However, a look at the confusion matrix shows that the regression only ever correctly predicts that a project is not ARB (true negative), as opposed to ever correctly predicting that it is (true positive). 
I try to improve the regression by weighing each entry into the regression by the number of credits they produce, thus making the logistic regression a classifier for each individual credit rather than project. This results in a slightly more accurate classifier with a much stronger negative coefficient, showing that as time passed more projects that were ineligible for the ARB program were carried out. The confusion matrix shows that the regression is now predicting both true negatives and true positives, making it more reliable.
# 13-19
The final section of the analysis (as of now) attempts to find a trend in the “retirement delay” of carbon credits. In the carbon credit industry it is common knowledge that the longer credits from a given project go without retirement, the more of a discount they tend to be sold at a discount, all other factors being equal, since potential buyers might be concerned that the project is not reliable. I attempt to find out if over time there is a trend in the time elapsed between a credit’s issuance (vintage) and its retirement, speculating that an increase in delay might suggest that buyers are looking for greater discounts, which might suggest that credits are becoming overvalued.
Once again I scale the years of retirement and issuance and produce a regression, this time linear, using vintage date as the independent variable and retirement delay as the dependent variable. The result is not very reliable, with a 0.03 accuracy score (R-squared). I then again try to add weights based on the number of credits in each project, which results in a somewhat higher R2 (0.11) and a positive coefficient, suggesting that the delay is increasing. But this could just mean that as time passes, vintages with longer delays are available.
Finally, I try to turn my regression into a multivariate one by adding in an index of carbon credit prices to see if the price and delays are related. A new regression suggests that they are- the year alone now has a negative coefficient, but the index has a positive one, and the regression overall has a higher R2 (0.2). Using the index as the only variable once again has a positive coefficient and an R2 higher than the year alone.

# Links
https://gspp.berkeley.edu/research-and-impact/centers/cepp/projects/berkeley-carbon-trading-project/offsets-database
https://www.spglobal.com/spdji/en/indices/products/global-carbon-index.html
